# ERRORS in NODEJS
    Errors are any issues that occurs unexpectedly causes are program to not function properly or hault the execution
    Error object itself doesn't specify any circumstances under which the error has occurred but it does capture the stack trace which shows the point of error or even error description.
    Every error in node js is from error object

# Properties of errors in node.js
- [newError(message)](#newError)
- [error.message](#errorMessage)
- [error.code](#errorCode)
- [error.stack](#errorStack)
- [error.captureStackTrace](#errorCaptureStackTrace)
- [error.stackTraceLimit](#errorStackTraceLimit)


## newError
    This is used to create a new error object. It also sets error.message property to a specified text

## errorMessage
    This shows the description of the error. Message is set using new Error(msg). Most of the time the error message is shown on the top of the error stack

## errorCode
    This is a string label which is used to identify the type of error.It specifies errors in the form of node.js error code.

## errorStack
    It returns a string in which details are provided about where in the code the error is instanstiated.

## errorCaptureStackTrace
    This is used to create a .stack property on the target object which returns the location in the code where Error.captureStackTrace() was called. It returns the data in the form of string.

## errorStackTraceLimit
    This property specific number of stack frames captured by stack trace. It can be any valid JS number however 10 is the default value. If set to a non-number or negative number, then stack trace will not return any frames.

# Error propagation and interception in node.js
- [SynchronousAPIs](#synchronousAPIs)
- [AsynchronousAPIs](#asynchronousAPIs)

## synchronousAPIs
    These are those APIs which uses blocking method that does not accept a callback function and uses throw to report errors

## asynchronousAPIs
    Errors which occur in asynchronous APIs can be reported in multiple ways as shown below
- Errors can be routed to the object's error event if an asynchronous event is called on an object.
- Asynchronous methods in node js accepts an error object passed as the first argument given that method should accept the callbacks
- Very few asynchronous methods still use throw to raise exception which can further be handled by try/catch block.

### TRY/CATCH can not be used by asynchronous calls
    This is because when executing asynchronous call before even the call completed the following code would have already been executed.
    throwing an error insie callback can actually trashs the node code


# Errors
- [standard_errors](#standard_Errors)
- [system_errors](#system_errors)
- [user_specific_errors](#user_specific_errors)
- [assertion_errors](#assertion_errors)


### Standared error
< URI > error : This error is thrown when a global URI handling function is misued.
< Eval > error : This error is thrown when the call to eval() fails.
< Type > error : This is a subclass of error which shows that the argument provided is not of allowed type.
for e.g. passing an object where a string is expected would be considered a TypeError.
< Range > error : This is a subclass of error which shows that the argument provided was not within the range of acceptable values.
< Syntax > error : This is a subclass of error which indicates that the code written is not of valid Javascript.
< Reference > error : This is a subclass of error which signifies that an attempt is made to access a variable which is not defined. These are very common typos or broken code .


### CommonYears.
- This type of errors are generated when the exception occurs during the run time of the program. They are generated when the application violated some constraints of operating system.


User-specified errors : This type of errors are generated by application code.
Assertion errors : This type of errors are raised by assert . This type of errors are special case of errors which occurs when an exceptional logic violation is detected in node.js that should never occur.